Right. So what we tried to do here is
like pick
uh you try to just pick a
point on this like cost
axis from zero to the cost of the paro
point. Okay. So now I remember how you
do this.
Cool. Yeah. So, it's back up on X and
everywhere else now. Good.
Uh, I remember a big thing with early
dev in protein was trying to figure out
if there were different ways we could
weight different environment reward
functions.
right? What's the focus next release?
Yeah. So, goal is just we're now going
back through all the things that need to
be done for the release. We're starting
to write some notes here.
Um, protein is going to be the main
thing today. All our hyperparam tuning
stuff plus configs and then we'll see
how long that takes. Um, the thing
that's just tricky with releases, right,
is like the code gets into the state
that it gets over several months of dev
and you have to do quite a bit of
cleanup, but also that there are some
like big experiment sweeps that you need
to run before release. And then you
actually want to delete the settings
that are used in a lot of those
experiment sweeps before the release.
Um, and the motivation behind that is
this is not just like a paper release
where you're trying to reproduce the
paper, right? Like you can always go
back and grab our old commit if you want
to do that or we might just make a
branch for
it. Um, but we don't want to have bad
settings uh in the release code, right?
We want it to just be the one path like
this works the best on everything. Use
this. So we don't want to give users a
whole bunch of confusing settings like
try stuff out themselves. We just want
to make it the simplest thing possible.
Um so I have to get the code into a
clean state except for removing those
tidbits. I have to comprehensively run
all these different experiments like
have that in a good spot and then I have
to figure out like a good way to
either well I don't have to remove
everything to be fair like I can leave
additional stuff for instance for like
testing sweeps in the sweep code but I
don't want to have for instance I don't
want to have like all the different
advantage functions living in the main
train script I just want to have the one
that we're going to use. Uh yeah. So
that's like the tricky Okay.
So we can now we can
remove
function and this is now just a
linearize right. Oh, this is
unlinearize. Don't you clip
rewards. That's
separate.
So, you're not training uh the
hyperparam sweep algorithm does not
necessarily use
rewards. And typically, it's a bad idea
to use just raw rewards. You use like
the ultimate score variable that you
care about. And this is a big difference
because like for instance in neural MMO
or in like more complex MS you might
have a whole bunch of different reward
components but you don't want to sweep
based on the rewards you see because
that's not robust to changes in the
coefficients themselves. You want to
sweep based on a external metric you
care about. So in the case of neural MMO
it's the minimum of your combat and your
profession level. So the goal is to
level up level up both of your skills
and that's what we use as the metric for
that. uh in MOA, you know, there a bunch
of different reward components, but it's
just your win
rate.
So yeah, we no longer do X transform.
you standardize a certain score metric
comment. That's actually that is
separate. So the reason that we did that
um it wasn't for this at all. Though
interestingly it might help now that I'm
thinking about that. That's actually
kind of cool.
I don't think it should matter that much
because it gets it's just a linearizing
factor which carbs does anyways for you.
The reason I did that was so that I
could plot all the M's on the same plot.
So like I could run a benchmark on
everything and I could get all the M's
on the same plot if I wanted to. That's
all.
What distance metric did you end up
using for sampling? I had a similar
problem lately using kernel methods and
Gaussian processes here, right? And that
was a struggle. I ended up doing some
screening algorithm taking the max the
expectation plus some variance metric.
It's not great when the reward function
isn't super smooth.
uh it for hyperparameter tuning
specifically. So we found that you don't
want to rely on the Gaussian process in
any way like the variance prediction of
the Gaussian process is garbage. Um the
mean is at most directionally correct.
You just do not want to use it in any
meaningful way for that. So what we do
it instead we use we try to just like
pick a we try to get a cost
uh we like just generate a cost randomly
between zero
and 125% of the max cost that we've seen
or max parto cost that we've
seen and then we have a scoring function
that attempts to pick uh hyperprems that
we expect will be scoring high and near
that cost. That's all we do. So we're
really not relying very heavily on the
correctness of the uh the Gaussian
processes at all other than being like
directionally correct.
Basically every single thing that I
tried that it like relied on those
models, the Gaussian processes in like
any meaningful way would lead to shitty
edge cases where like the predictions
would end up being wrong and then you
would just stop exploring because of
it. So protein is in a sense it's a very
simple algorithm compared to like to
carbs or stuff. Um but it's very very
robust in the sense that like it can't
screw up in uh the way that a lot of
these more complex algorithms that rely
on the Gaussian processes more heavily
can screw
up. Like there was all sorts of cool
stuff that I tried to do earlier on. I
had this really cool version that was
like a binary search that fills out the
Pareto frontier. So like you literally
you're like trying to fill in points
that are halfway between like the
farthest two PTO points, you get like a
very efficient filling out of the
frontier. But like as soon as one
prediction is wrong, you're totally
screwed doing that. Like anything that
relies like you can't rely on adjacent
points for very much to be completely
correct because they can be noisy. You
kind of can't rely on anything fully
doing hyperpar tuning which is
tough. 125% cost is a robust but kind of
forcing it to explore. The idea is
that so like 20% of the time or whatever
you're just going to end up sampling a
higher cost point than your uh highest
cost parto. But at that point, like it's
not going to push you to explore even
higher cost unless it ends up being
Pareto. Uh, and you can tune that
factor. We have it hardcoded now, but
you can tune that factor to be like more
or less
aggressive. It's kind of random
exploration. It's not random
exploration. Thank you, Captain. This
is Hang on. Let me just show you.
Let me just show you this crazy setup
I'm working with
here. Don't think I'm leaking anything
here, right?
Nah, we're
good. I had to tune the uh the camera
prams a little bit and I don't know what
I'm doing in that space, but yeah, this
is this is what I'm looking at here.
So box it's not random exploration uh
because you're still using the Gaussian
process. What happens is you sample
between 1 and 125% of a cost. Okay, but
you still need to get a point. You still
need to select hyperparams that you
expect to get there. So what you do is
you you generate uh I believe around the
paro points, right? You generate a whole
bunch of candidates like that are like a
going randomly sampled from around the
PTO points and then you score them using
the Gaussian processes and uh you use
the predicted cost and score to select
which point that you attempt to get that
you expect to be near in
cost. So you're still relying on these
but you're relying on them way less
directly and in a way that is there like
way fewer ways for things to go wrong.
actually it's like raining a whole bunch
today. I
uh I got a good six mile run in in
torrential rain yesterday. Yeah, I don't
really need to run again today, but I do
enjoy running in I like running in
torrential
downpour. It's honestly easier running
in like it's just honestly it's easier.
You just don't overheat.
Uh, I'm just working on like cleaning up
and documenting everything, captain, cuz
like we're trying to work towards the
release. Speaking of which, we
definitely want to get Impulse Wars uh
into a good spot. We want all the new
M's in a good spot for
that.
Um, but like there's just a bunch of
cleanup work here. Let me show you what
I did already.
So this is clean paparell with the demo
file included. Now it's all one file
1169 lines. It's actually less than a
thousand lines of code for all the
demo. Um I've managed to get it down
quite a bit in lines and I think we're
going to get it down, you know, another
100 or 200 before we release this. I'm
trying to release like you can just
solve everything in with a script.
started on moving impulse wars to new
bindings. What are you binding it
with? Oh, instead of Syon, you
mean? Why isn't it easy? The new
bindings are supposed to be pretty
straightforward. Like you shouldn't have
to touch the end of binding at all. It
you should be able to just do the thing
that neural MMO
that? We might not. I can add stuff with
that
though. What do you need the constants
for
anyways? It's just a bunch of constants,
right? Or are there like shared data
buffers that you need?
though? I know you have like the
automatic whatever like network size
definition that's just like loaded from
a bunch of constants. My recommendation
there would just to be to hardcode the
net size like having 30 lines of
whatever to like automate the network
definition size I don't think really
helps you because you're basically like
it's unreadable anyways. So, you may as
well just use the lazy layers if you
want it to be like automatic or you
hardcode it if you don't want the lazy
layers to bite you, which is what I
helps
me you have to change it then use the
lazy layer if you want to do that like
the point of me hard coding network
sizes is so that I don't accidentally
end up with ridiculously sized layers um
if you just want it to work you can just
use the lazy layers I don't think like
having 30 lines of unre readable code to
compute sizes is just the worst of both
because like you still can't tell by
looking at it what the network output
sizes are going to be and you have 30
lines of garbage and you need now to
access all those
constants. I do some calculations of
obsets in C.
Yeah, I just do I just
duplicate I mean I just duplicate it
because it's like a couple lines of code
or not even it's like a couple of
constants or whatever and it's like way
worse to add all the logic to like get
that information up to the
You can have named variables and like
and still just set
them Like technically I guess you could
get it. I mean here if you want to do it
that way though, right? Like why can't
you just why can't you just declare the
constant in a Python and pass it to C on
an it then it's going to be available
either way. Isn't that like way easier
than like defining it in the C and then
having to like pull it
back. Then the only place you'd have to
duplicate it is in like the C demo file,
which who cares? That's no big
deal. You might even want it to be
different there anyways cuz like that
demo file like Yeah, you might want that
different there anyways.
Okay. So, that's all of these extra
comments gotten out. Oh, no. We solve
this.
obs dozen obs constants there. There's
just no way that you're going to be able
to make that clean even if you can get
the fun the prams from C because then
you're doing some calculations on a
dozen constants in the freaking Python,
right? Like in the model when you init.
I'm going to have to look at
it. I think either
way we also have carbs here.
right. Okay. So, that I just basically
deleted a bunch of comments and added
some notes.
Um, the tricky thing here is I don't
want to test this fully
until everything else is
stable. Maybe I should just start doing
it
It's like really difficult when I can't
just finish the sweeps or finish this or
finish that because like everything
depends on everything else. This is at
least cleaner for
in. This will be like a plot function,
I'm sure, when we go to do the
experiments. 684 lines.
now. Sweep goal maximize. So actually
none of these need sweep blocks anymore
I think.
Are you also going to do a full cleanup
of the rest of the
codebase? Are you going to keep huffer
Atari
file unused
functions? I'm going to clean it up
iteratively and see what gets kept and
what doesn't.
But we're we're going to
see. I wish the default ISO on this
thing were
better or the auto
ISO.
Okay, got this.
When you say the puffer Atari file, you
mean like the clean RL demo for
comparison? I don't know. Maybe not.
We'll see. I might It's like It's still
useful to see. I might keep just like
that one file.
I'm probably not going to keep any of
the SP3 stuff cuz like at this point if
you're using SP3 you're just hard
trolling
anyways. I don't know. I've like I've
become a lot less tolerant I think of
people who just like oh but can we make
it work with the thing that we're
already using even if the thing we're
already using
sucks. Like clean RL it's like okay you
want a simple thing that you can use to
like test like fine right clean is
actually good it's just Hello.
right, that should have this at least
runnable on stuff.
runs. Opinions about policy constants
aside, if I had some way to pass values
from C to
Python, I could have
migrated I could have it migrated pretty
easily.
that. Yeah, you know I can do
it. I can do it pretty easily for you.
You literally would just need like a get
function or
whatever. I could just define like put
and get. Yeah.
Yeah, that's literally what it would be.
Captain, I just it took me a second to
like remember how I did stuff and how
that I could do that relatively
simply. So, it just mirrors the camera
quality just keep getting like worse and
worse as it gets brighter.
Yeah.
It's
like, okay, I'm going to have to figure
something out about this over the day so
I don't have to keep doing
this. To be fair, it'll be a lot easier
with the new lighting.
Literally a freaking spider here that's
like knit an entire web under my
monitor. That will likely
be that type of thing will stop
happening once all the maintenance is
done around here.
That's
linky. I got to get the policy working
in
C. Man, I just need to spend some time
doing some like some work on impulse
war. Seeing if I can just get something
that's better and simpler for you.
M's. Okay, so configs are cleaned up.
That didn't take very long. Um, got like
40 minutes now.
I got to figure out a way that I'm going
to like actually get to the point where
I can run all the final experiments
here. First of all, did my sweep finish?
I might have two boxes free right now.
Maybe that's what I Maybe that's what it
is. Maybe it's just like I need to
really just have these jobs queued up
and like the more jobs that start
working the more confident I'm going to
get on
this. No, E3B is going to be deleted. Um
Dian's coming out temporarily even
though Diane I think is actually
promising. P30O is coming out even
though it's promising. like it's just
going to be the code path that works
that solves everything simple as
possible. Puffer advantage is left in
because puffer advantage should be on by
Yeah, I like I've kind of just realized,
you know what? I'm like, as far as I've
gotten away from academia and the way
they do things, I just I need to keep
going. It's like things just need to be
done the way that I know that they need
to be done. And
like, and I need to spend less time
worrying about like academic naysaying.
Okay, look at that. That is over 6.0.
That is new soda and actually by a good
margin. It is with a substantially
larger policy, but it is good to see
that that's that that uh actually
So, here's what we're going to do with
that.
I
should We can actually do that right
now. The M hasn't changed though, so
it's not like I could have broken the M.
I actually don't think that this is
going to load on the current
branch. Let me do a couple quick
things. Yeah, I we have a few things to
do actually. Perfect. This is just going
to be the right amount of time.
Now, I think what we do the order of
operations here
sweeps. What M's do we want to use for
sweeps?
I like the idea of using Breakout.
That's like a
classic
speedun. And then we want one that's a
bit
larger. Maybe we do our maze.
sweep. I don't think it takes that long
either.
mil. And
then let's see.
The problem is we can't really sweep.
Um, there are restrictions now with the
sweeps, aren't there?
Let's just make sure that everything
that's in
here to be in
here. I don't think there is any such
paramis horizon.
No, we'll spend some time before release
and get box 2D archives
generated. We can use that. Would be
nice. But actually, Captain, I have no
idea what the hell we do about the build
stuff for release. It's actually quite
difficult.
Um because now we also have CUDA in
here. So, like I think we have to ship
wheels. I don't know if you can
ship I don't know. Can you ship wheels
that like are technically going to do
the Python from source and only the CUDA
shipped as like I don't know. I think
that there's going to have to be some
sort of
obnoxious CI build wheel system or
whatever. Anyways,
um like I definitely want it to be easy
to set up if you just like when you
clone it and minimal, but I think that
probably we're going to have to like
build a bunch of wheels anyways at this
point. I don't know if that affects
anything that you're thinking about.
whole bunch of divisibility issues,
don't
M's? Okay, that's
good. I'm here for the next few weeks
just doing this type of stuff. So, as
soon as I get like the rest of the code
into a decent spot, I'm going to start
looking at fixing making all the M's
work well and then
Is there any reason to make BPT Horizon
a hyper pram?
it cuz we have new constraints like the
new experience buffer is a little bit
more locked in like to what types of
what combinations of parameters you can
have.
No, there would still be a reason to
have it
because if the batch size gets really
big, then you're going to have an
issue. I like you can't have everything
now. I just I have to figure out a way
to do this sweep where all combinations
are going to be valid. I don't want to
have like this oh invalid thing just
reject this trial [ __ ]
now. Here, this is what we'll do. We'll
remove it from sweeps.
Okay. So, auto
horizon break out at 3 million steps per
Perfect. So now all I have to be careful
with is uh batch and mini
Well, I guess what's like the lowest
that we would entertain?
I'm not going to be super surprised if
this doesn't perform amazingly.
Um should be good on a wall clock
though.
Okay. So, if we're going to do it like
this then, right? Then there's no reason
to
have. What is the new approach that
removes the need for Syon?
If you just check out the dev
branch dev or release either of
those, we have this nice end
binding. So this is like a 500 line
Python API file that just defines a few
convenient functions for us. And
then if I look like at this neural mmo3,
this is your entire binding file.
All you need to do is you need to tell
it what arguments come from Python.
Unpack those and what arguments or what
log items you want returned. And other
than that, it's just going to
instantiate these in C using the Python
C API. It comes with a vech in it. It
comes with like a nonvector in it. Um,
it's all in that one file. Now, the
Python C API is kind of a pain in the
ass. It's kind of gross to read, but uh
the key is that each new environment now
just needs something like this. It's way
easier. Uh and this is still not like a
config file. You can still write
whatever code you want in here. Like
we're going to add a put function. We're
going to add a get function for like um
impulse wars because captain needed
something. So it's still pretty easy to
do stuff like that with. But like this
will cover almost everything. And then
if you look at how nice it is to
use. So I just I have I'm making all
these M's in a loop like this. And then
I just call vectorz on them and they
just go into one C
pointer. It was very
convenient. All right, I got to get
cranking here. I only I got like 10
minutes and then I'm going for
breakfast. So I want to at least get
some experiments running.
2 E7 is 20
mil. One E8 is 100
mil. The 5 E7 scale is
auto like
that. Looks good.
And
then we will
have Let's just try it on this box real
quick so I have time.
Okay, you know what? Screw it. We'll do
it on the local
machine. That way, we at least have a
sweep run over
breakfast and then I'll have to fix this
build stuff when I get back. This is
ridiculous.
Okay, this is now running and we should
actually
here. I will be running to for breakfast
in a few. I'm just going to make sure
that this is correctly running. And the
goal here is that this should run a
bunch of experiments over the next hour
or so. They're not that long. They're
only like a minute each at the moment.
Uh and we should get at least a good
idea of what the current algorithm can
do. We'll do a few more of these. We'll
have I have to get the uh the other
boxes set up with the new code to run
this. And uh we should get a pretty good
idea of whether this is all working as
expected. And that'll give me confidence
to go run the final experiments when
they need
to. Yeah, that's going to be the main
idea. And it does seem like these are uh
these are running correctly, which is
good. This is just eval here. So the
train stops right here.
This is our current best model is EDML
solve
in
huh? This is going to take more time
today, unfortunately. It looks
Huh? See, if you get an infer and nan in
here, it
breaks. Okay. Well, I'm going to go for
breakfast. Um, I will come back after
this. whole bunch of info to fix. But I
think that that'll be a good goal today
for today is to get like a clean set of
sweeps running um so that we can have
that portion benchmarked. But for folks
watching buffer.ai for all the things or
the GitHub to help me out, it's free and
uh you can join the Discord to get
involved with development. So, thanks.
And I will be
back after breakfast and some exercise,
probably a couple